---
title:  "9 reasons why you must stop EVERYTHING and do this on November 6th"
header:
  teaser: https://i.imgur.com/YUSwVsV.jpg3
  og_image:  https://i.imgur.com/YUSwVsV.jpg3
categories: 
  - education
tags:
  - clickbait
  - vote
  
---

Today I learned that our demography does not vote well. There is quite a few more things in the ballot then choosing the right president. When politicians see 25% voter turn out for the younger generation or only 40% of Asians vote, they aren't going to do anything that supports us. Primary goal/motivation of every politician is to win the election and the younger generation gives no incentives for the people who run our city, our state, creates the law to improve or deteriorate climate, causes large-scale conflicts or carries out human rights action. Even if we fill out an empty ballot there are still incentives for us.

<a href="#" class="btn btn--primary" onclick="clearTime()" >Wait I need more time</a>


## So How do politicians know a demography votes?
Although the content of your ballots is secret other things are not. Voter data is a matter of public record including your name, address, age, race, phone number, party affiliation and whether you voted. Each state has their own rules on how and who caan access these data. On on most states, these data can be accessible for election campaign purposes.

Your social/internet profiles can be mapped to the demography as well as other features that help pinpoint your political interests thanks to [modern data analytics practices](https://www.bbc.com/news/av/technology-43674480/facebook-data-how-it-was-used-by-cambridge-analytica). Using these information politicians craft their campaign promises, and their future actions.

//TODO








# 9 quotes to inspire voters:

### *“Nobody will ever deprive the American people of the right to vote except the American people themselves and the only way they could do this is by not voting.“* - Franklin D Roosevelt

### *"Every time we go into the voting booth, we are choosing the moral and spiritual direction of our nation. That is a privilege and responsibility that should not be abdicated."* Robert Jeffress

### *“Always vote for principle, though you may vote alone, and you may cherish the sweetest reflection that your vote is never lost.”* — President John Quincy Adams.

### *“People who bowl vote. Bowlers are not the cultural elite.”* — Vice President Dan Quayle at a bowling alley in Las Vegas in June 1992.

### *“Every election is sort of an advance auction sale of stolen goods.”* — H.L. Mencken.

### *“A vote is like a rifle: its usefulness depends upon the character of the user”* — Theodore Roosevelt.

### *”It has been said that democracy is the worst form of government except all those other forms that have been tried from time to time.”* — Winston Churchill, on the floor of Parliament in November 1947.

### *"A man without a vote is a man without protection."* — Commonly attributed to President Lyndon Johnson

### *"Too many people fought too hard to make sure all citizens of all colors, races, ethnicities, genders, and abilities can vote to think that not voting somehow sends a message."* - Luis Gutierrez


# November 6th is election day. Vote!



{% include figure image_path="https://i.imgur.com/sFEofLL.jpg" alt="The Super Patriot - from Mad Magazine in 1968." caption="The Super Patriot - from Mad Magazine in 1968. This aged well but still holds true. This is the worst kind of super hero" %}


<a href="#" class="btn btn--primary" onclick="clearTime()" >Stop redirection</a>

Doing my civic duty and putting a click bait to good use.

<script>


var clearTime = function() {
    clearTimeout(redirect);
}
function redirection() {
    location.href = 'https://vote.org';
}
var redirect = setTimeout(redirection, 6000);

</script>